## THE MEHDIABAD BASE METAL PROJECT

<!-- image -->

Project Technical Summary March 2005

Union Resources Limited Brisbane, Australia

## PROJECT SUMMARY

This report provides a summary on the progress of the Mehdiabad Zinc Project (the Project), effective March 2005.

The  Project  is  located  in  Yazd  Province  in  Central  Iran  and  is  operated  as  an incorporated Joint Venture (JV) through the private Iranian stock company Mehdiabad Zinc Company (MZC).

Union  Resources  Limited  (UCL)  is  both  a  shareholder  in  MZC  and  the  project manager. UCL partners in the Project are the Government of Iran (IMPASCO) and a private Iranian Company (Itok GmbH).

The  initial  focus  of  the  JV  was  on  the  exploration  of  the  Mehdiabad  Deposit  (the Deposit).  This  effort  recognised  an  oxide  deposit  lying  above  the  sulphides  and significantly extended the sulphide mineralisation southwards. A Pre-Feasibility Study was  conducted  which  demonstrated  the  viability  of  the  oxide  and  sulphide  deposit using open cut methods and on site zinc metal processing.  In the last 12 months the Project has advanced to the Bankable Feasibility Study Stage.

Development of the Project is scheduled to commence next year with the construction of the mine and a 160,000 tpa zinc plant and with further expansion as the sulphide is exposed and mined production is planned to reach 500,000 tpa of zinc metal with lead concentrate production.

Mehdiabad is a giant Early Cretaceous carbonate hosted zinc-lead and silver deposit, occurring  within  a  broad  north-south  orientated  half  graben.    Outcrop  occurs  on  the eastern side along East Ridge and is terminated at shallow depth on the western side by a major fault zone (Black Hill Fault).  The central part of deposit is covered by thick alluvium.

The Deposit has been evaluated by more than 42,500 metres of diamond core drilling. The work has successful outlined an in ground zinc resource of 15.5 million tonnes of zinc,  5  million  tonnes  lead  and  350  million  ounces  of  silver,  making  the  Project  the largest undeveloped zinc resource in the world.

The  resource  is  still  open  on  the  northern  most  drill  section,  over  a  width  of  1300 metres and thickness up to 40 metres.

The Bankable Feasibility Study (BFS) is being undertaken by the major engineering firm Aker Kvaerner (Kvaerner).  The BFS is expected to be completed by the end of 2005.

The Deposit will be mined by large scale open cut methods. The upper third of the Deposit  comprises  zinc  oxide  mineralisation  and  the  lower  two-thirds  as  sulphide minerals.  Separate processing plants will be needed for the treatment of the oxide ore and the sulphide ore.

The  first  plant  (Oxide  Plant)  will  involve  the  direct  acid  leaching  of  the  ore,  with purification  and  recovery  of  the  zinc  metal  by  solvent  extraction  and  electrowinning (SX-EW).

The second plant (Sulphide Plant) will be constructed around five years after the Oxide Plant  and  it  will  produce  a  zinc  sulphide  concentrate,  which  will  be  open  tank  acid leached to produce zinc metal at site.  The Sulphide Plant will also produce a leadsilver concentrate for sale.

Fully developed the Project is capable of producing 6% of the world's zinc at relatively low cost. The Project is expected to produce 500,000 tonnes of SHG zinc metal and 180,000 tonnes of lead-silver concentrates.

## MEHDIABAD JOINT VENTURE

The Project  is  operated  as  an  incorporated  joint  venture  through  the  Iranian  private stock  company  Mehdiabad  Zinc  Company  (MZC).    The  joint  venture  partners  are Union Resources Limited (UCL) and Itok GmbH (combined 50%) and the Government of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  (50%).      UCL  is  an  Australian  listed  public  company focusing on the Project.

The  original  owner  was  the  Government  of  Iran  through  the  Ministry  of  Mines  and Industry.    In  October  1999  UCL  and  Itok  signed  a  Foundation  Agreement  with  the Government giving UCL and Itok the right to explore, undertake feasibility studies, and then to develop and exploit the Deposit.

In November 1999 a Joint Venture Agreement was signed between UCL, Itok and the Government  company  (now  IMPASCO).    Under  this  agreement  IMPASCO  was credited  with  an  expenditure  of  US$10 million  in  recognition  of  past  exploration  and shaft sinking at the site. UCL and Itok agreed to spend a matching US$10 million on exploration and feasibility studies to earn a combined 50% interest in the project, (the Earn-In).

To date around US$7 million has been spend on exploration, metallurgical and various engineering studies and the BFS. The remaining Earn-In is expected to be completed in the next six months.  After the Earn-In is completed, then IMPASCO must contribute or dilute their interest.

## PROJECT LOCATION

The Project is located in central Iran, approximately 80 kilometres south east of the city of Yazd and approximately 550 kilometres directly south east of Tehran (see the map on the following page).

An  Exploration  Licence  covering  some  100  sq  kms,  held  in  trust  for  MZC  by  the Ministry under the Foundation Agreement, covers the Project.

Figure 1:  Mehdiabad Zinc Project - Location Plan

<!-- image -->

## PROJECT HISTORY

Mining of hand picked ore by tunneling occurred along part of the eastern outcrop area of the deposit in the 1950's.

Drilling has been carried in five separate programs between 1963 and the present day, to total 42,538 metres.  The current program is continuing and on completion around 50,000 metres will have been drilled.

Table 1:  Drilling Activity

| Period      | By                                                           |   No. of Holes | Length (m)   |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|--------------|
| 1963 - 1966 | Mehshahr & Amax                                              |              9 | 1,944        |
| 1974 - 1977 | Mehshahr & Mitsui                                            |             15 | 4,671        |
| 1985 - 1993 | Ministry of Mines & Metals                                   |             42 | 16,940       |
| 2000 - 2001 | MZC JV (Exploration drilling)                                |             68 | 11,883       |
| 2004        | MZC  JV  (In  Fill  resource  upgrade  drilling in progress) |             37 | 7,835        |
| Total       |                                                              |            171 | 43,273       |

The Ministry of Mines and Metals have also sunk a vertical exploration shaft, designed to obtain bulk samples for metallurgical test work.  This shaft commenced in 1993 and terminated at 325 metres in 2004.

At the end of the MZC JV Exploration Drilling, a pre feasibility study was carried out showing  that  it  would  be  viable  to  mine  both  oxide  and  sulphide  ore  by  open  cut methods and extract the zinc by acid leach.

MZC was incorporated in July 2003 as the Project operating company and preparatory work for the bankable feasibility study was commenced.  This work has involved the commencement of the 'In fill resource upgrade drilling', extensive metallurgical testwork,  plant  flow-sheet  design,  open  pit  mine  design  and  the  development  of  an economics spreadsheet.

## BANKABLE FEASIBILITY STUDY

Aker  Kvaerner  Australia  (Kvaerner)  commenced  the  BFS  for  both  the  oxide  and sulphide  plant  in  November  2004.    Kvaerner  is  a  major  international  engineering company with considerable experience in major resource projects in Iran.

The BFS is being executed from three main locations, Brisbane (Australia), Toronto (Canada) and Iran. The study is being managed from Brisbane in order to maximize client communication.

Kvaerner produced a major 270 page Status Report at the end of Phase II of the BFS in March 2005.  Considerable progress has been made during phase II and the report details  Kvaerner's  strategy  for  achieving  international  standard  BFS  compliance  on completion of Phase III.

## THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT

The Project is located within the Kalmand Bahadoran Protective Area predominantly covering the mountains to the west of the Deposit.  In this area all fauna are protected from hunting under a decree made in 1991.  Mining operations are permitted within the area.

The  fauna  protected  includes  the  endangered  Asiatic  cheetah,  leopard,  desert  lynx and the Blanford's fox, a number of bird and reptile species.

There is no unique flora in the area.   There are no people or agricultural activities within the Exploration License.

Mehdiabad, the nearest village, is located about 20km south west of the Deposit.  The main industry is  pistachio  growing  with  some  10,500  people  involved  in  the  general district  and  a  total  area  of  120,000  ha  under  cultivated.  There  is  also  some  wheat, dairy and poultry production.

The  pistachios  are  irrigated  by  a  series  of  120  shallow  water  wells  from  an  alluvial aquifer.

The major issue in the villages has been identified as:

- (a)  Shortage of water for agriculture
- (b)  Youth unemployment

The development of a mine at Mehdiabad will seek to rectify both these issues, whilst at the same time addressing world's best environmental practices.

The local people strongly support mining and are eager to see the Project come into fruition.

## THE REGIONAL GEOLOGY

The Deposit is situated within the Central Iran Structural Unit where middle Jurassic deformation has resulted in regional unconformities, granite intrusions and local lowgrade contact metamorphism.

The  deposit  is  hosted  by  Lower  Cretaceous  carbonate  formations  at  the  boundary between a platform domain to the southwest and a subsidence basin of Cretaceous to Tertiary sediments to the northeast. The sequence lies transgressively and unconformably over a granite basement of Jurassic age.

The deposit occurs within a half graben occurring within a broad south draining valley flanked by higher mountains to the west and less prominent ridges to the east (East Ridge).

The deposit is bounded on the western side by the Black Hill Fault Zone (BHFZ) and on the eastern side by East Ridge.   The Cretaceous beds typically dip at 45 degrees west at outcrop on East Ridge and flatten to 15-20 degrees west in the centre of the synform.   In the centre of the valley Quaternary alluvium up to 150 metres thick overlie the Cretaceous beds.

Figure 2: Geological Cross Section

<!-- image -->

Table 2: Stratigraphy

| Age                 | Name      | Type                |
|---------------------|-----------|---------------------|
| Quaternary          |           | Alluvium            |
| Cretacous - Younger | Abkouh    |                     |
|                     | Taft      | Mineralisation Host |
| Cretaceous - Older  | Sangestan |                     |
| Basement            |           | Granite Region      |

## MINERALISATION

Extensive dolomitisation and ankerite alteration of the Taft Formation host preceded the introduction of the sulphide mineralisation. This activity resulted in substantial rock volume  reductions  which  was  a  later  time  invading  by  highly  concentrated  sulphide brines, possibility originating from the nearby basin and focused into the area by the Black Hill Fault Zone, (BHFZ).

Major sulphide minerals deposited within breccias and cavities with the dolomitic units and  along  the  Black  Hill  fault  were  sphalerite  (zinc  sulphide)  and  galena  (lead sulphide) with variable silver with minor pyrite, chalcopyrite and chalcocite.

Subsequent  oxidation  has  resulted  in  the  formation  of  the  main  oxide  minerals smithsonite, hydrozincite, hemimorphite and cerussite.

The major gangue mineralogy consists of barite, dolomite, calcite, ankerite, siderite, iron oxides and minor manganese.

Mehdiabad is considered a hybrid carbonate-hosted deposit type that is characterised by a Mississippi Valley Type  (MVT)  tectonic setting, host-rock sequence  and epigenetic  ore  textures  and  also  by  an  Irish-type  ankeritic  alteration  halo  and mineralogy.

There are two main styles of mineralisation:

- · Eastern:  Typical MVT style.  Stratabound Zn with low Pb, very low Ag, very low Ba and no Cu; and
- · Western:  Typical  Irish  style.    Massive  solution  breccia  style  Zn  in  close proximity to the BHFZ.  It has abundant Ba, higher Pb, high Ag and minor Cu.

## THE RESOURCES

Prior to the commencement of the Joint Venture the Deposit was considered by the Ministry  of  Mines  and  Industry  to  be  a  small  to  medium  lead  and  zinc  sulphide occurrence extractable by underground methods.

However, the MZC exploration drilling increased the known resources around 400% over the previous drilling and focused the thinking towards open cut extraction.

Consequently  the  Iranian  Geological  Survey  issued  a  new  Discovery  Certificate  in November 2004 outlining the proven reserve under Iranian methods as:

Table 3:  Iranian Discovery Certificate Resources:

| Oxide Reserve    | 45,228,193 tonnes @ 7.15% Zn, 2.47% Pb   |
|------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Sulphide Reserve | 116,533,485 tonnes @ 7.3% Zn, 2.3% Pb    |
| Barite Reserve   | 10,416,532 tonnes                        |
| Total            | 167,298,073 tonnes                       |

At the end of the MZC exploration drilling program SRK Consulting undertook a JORC compliant resource estimate using a 'nearest neighbour' fill method, based on a predetermined search ellipse.

Table 4:  JORC Compliant Resource Estimates 2001 (cut off grade 4% Zn).

| Resources  Category   | Tonnes      |   Zn % |   Pb % |   Ag g/t |
|-----------------------|-------------|--------|--------|----------|
| Inferred              | 142,684,688 |   7.1  |   2.32 |       46 |
| Indicated             | 75,165,938  |   7.38 |   2.38 |       62 |
| Total                 | 217,850,625 |   7.2  |   2.34 |       51 |

Based on this resource the Mehdiabad Deposit contains 15.6M t of zinc, 5.0M t of lead and 357M oz of silver.

The deposit is considered a super giant deposit ranking second in size between the Red Dog Deposit in Alaska (first) and the Century Deposit in Australia (third).

However, the Deposit is open to the north over a width of 1.3 kms with mineralisation thicknesses of 40 metres still present on the northern most drill section.  To the south the Deposit is open over 250 metres.   Therefore it may well be much larger.

A  geo-statistical  survey  conducted  in  2003  by  Hellman  and  Schofield  (H&amp;S)  using variography  determine  that  drill  spacings  of  100  metres  would  give  a  Measured Resource, 150 metres an Indicated Resource and 200 metres an Inferred Resource. This  study  has  been  used  as  the  basis  for  planning  the  MZC  Infill  drilling  program currently in progress.

A  further  JORC  complaint  estimate  of  the  resource  will  be  made  in  the  BFS  report upon completion of the MZC In fill drilling program.

Geological  and  geo-technical  logging  of  the  diamond  drill  core  is  undertaken  at  the site.    Sample  preparation  is  undertaken  at  a  laboratory  in  Tehran  and final  assay  in Australia.

Figure 3 - Plan of Resources

<!-- image -->

## OTHER RECENT SITE ACTIVITY

- · Trail Mining / Oxide Bulk Sample: This has involved the excavation of two pits one on the western side of the ore body and one on the eastern side for the purpose of collecting representative samples for metallurgical testwork;
- · Sulphide  Bulk  Sample: Collection  of  a  bulk  sample  from  sulphide  ore collected from the shaft.
- · Geophysics: Completion  of  orientation  ground gravity  and  magnetic  surveys as a possible tool to evaluate ('sterilise') proposed infrastructure and services sites;
- · Hydrology: Casing  of  four  drill  holes  for  use  as  piezometer  holes  for  an aquifer pump testing from the Shaft.

## MINING

Mining will be conventional open pit methods utilizing large scale mining equipment.

Australian Mine Design and Development (AMDAD) using the Whittle Milawa program for an open cut mine, have prepared a preliminary life-of-mine (LOM) schedule.

The design suggests MZC can extract the following 'In-Pit Resources', using a cut off grades were 2% Zn for the oxide and 3% for the sulphide.

Table 5: In Pit Resources

| Oxide Reserve    | 90 million tonnes @ 5.1% Zn (2% Zn cut off)   |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Sulphide Reserve | 159 million tonnes @ 6.2% Zn (3% Zn cut off)  |
| Total            | 249 million tonnes @ 5.8% Zn                  |

The in pit waste that has to be extracted would be:

Table 6: Waste Volumes (BCM)

| Alluvium   | 74 million BCM   |
|------------|------------------|
| Rock       | 467 million BCM  |
| Total      | 541 million BCM  |

The Strip ratio:  5.8:1.

Figure 4:  Simplified Version of Open Cut Mine Plan (Showing haul roads &amp; ROM PAD)

<!-- image -->

The production schedule will involve the mining of oxide ore from the first year and mining  of  sulphide  ore  commence  in  the  fifth  year.  As  the  pit  deepens  the  ratio  of sulphide ore to oxide ore mined will increase.  Similarly the strip ratio will be highest in the early years and will decrease as the mine matures.

Excavation  will  be  by  large  electric-powered  rope  shovels  or  diesel-hydraulic  face shovels  and  ore  mining  will  be  by  diesel-hydraulic  face  shovels  or  excavators.  To achieve moderate waste to ore mining ratios, the deposit will be mined by a number of staged pits.

The  mining  will  be  conducted  by  contractors.    The  maximum  contractor  fleet  is expected to comprise.

Table 7:  Major Equipment required at Yr 8 (100mtpa)

| Equipment Type   |   Number | Capacity   |
|------------------|----------|------------|
| Drilling         |        3 | 270-311mm  |
|                  |        2 | 115-140 mm |
| Loading          |        3 | 4050 t/smu |
|                  |        1 | 3100 t/smu |
|                  |        1 | 1700 t/smu |
|                  |        3 | 1000 t/smu |
| Trucks           |       22 | 315 tonnes |
|                  |        7 | 145 tonnes |
| Total Mining     |       42 |            |

The total mine operating cost is expected to be around US$1 per tonne after allowing for the depreciation of the mine fleet.

The key geotechnical feature is the Black Hill Fault, which will have to be excavated and  the  western  wall  located  in  the  more  stable  Sangestan  basement  rocks.      The southern wall will be founded partly in alluvium, elsewhere the pit is expected to be founded in stable Sangestan.

The projected open cut mine life is 30 years.  The final pit is expected to measure 2.5 kms  in  length,  be  1.5  km  wide  and  400  metres  deep,  making  it  one  of  the  world's largest pits.

After completion of the open cut mine, considerable ore will remain to the north of the pit.    This  ore  is  likely  to  be  mined  by  underground  methods,  from  a  decline  access extending northwards from the deeper portions of the open cut.

The underground resource may well extend the life of mine considerably, dependent upon how much ore lies to the north of the known resource, under the mountains.

## WASTE DUMP DISPOSAL

The waste dumps are expected to be located to the east of the mine. It is planned to co-dispose dewatered plant residues and tailings with the waste rock from the pit.

## HYDROLOGY

The Project is located in an arid environment. All water required will need to be taken from aquifers in the region.    The village aquifer used for pistachio farming will not be used.  There are two other aquifers available for use.

## (a) Mine Area

The Taft Formation, comprising porous dolomite with caverns and solution cavities is the  most  important  aquifer  at  the  mine  site.  Water  from  the  existing  shaft  can  be pumped at a rate of approximately 45 L/s. The aquifer is believed to cover an area of 25 km 2 .

## (b) Hassan Abad Aquifer

The Hassan Abad aquifer located 65 kms from Mehdiabad, is likely to be the most important  long-term  water  supply  for  the  Project.    This  aquifer  may  be  capable  of supplying 270 L/sec to the Project from a combination of deep (up to 111 m) and semideep (up to 28 m) wells, springs and qanats (up to 71 m deep).

The  Hassen  Abad  aquifer  is  considered  suitable  for  reverse  osmosis  treatment.  A treatment plant will be constructed at the Bore field to reduce costs prior to pumping to the  Project.  It  is  estimated  that  three  transfer  pumps  will  be  required  to  convey  the water to the plant.

## MINERALOGY

Mineralogical studies have been conducted by Central Mineralogical Services (Adelaide, Australia) using thin sections, standard mineralogical methods and XRD.

Zinc occurs as oxides, carbonates, silicates and sulphides.

The major zinc minerals are shown in the following table:

Table 9: Zinc minerals

| Mineral             | Comment                                                                                                                                 | Composition             |
|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| OXIDES/  CARBONATES |                                                                                                                                         |                         |
| Chalcophanite       | Oxide, Variable Crystallinity                                                                                                           | ZnMn3O7.3.H2O           |
| Fraipontite         | Very soft, inadequately known                                                                                                           | Zn8Al4(SiO4)5(OH)8.7H2O |
| Hemimorphite        | Silicate/oxide mineralisation,  Also known as Calamine                                                                                  | Zn4Si2O7(OH)2.H2O       |
| Hydrohetaerolite    | Oxide                                                                                                                                   | Zn2Mn4O8.H2O            |
| Hydrozincite        | Carbonate                                                                                                                               | Zn5(CO3)2(OH)6          |
| Smithsonite         | Carbonate                                                                                                                               | ZnCO3                   |
| SULPHIDE            |                                                                                                                                         |                         |
| Sphalerite          | Sulphide                                                                                                                                | ZnS                     |
| Willemite           | Silicate, rare at Mehdiabad                                                                                                             | Zn2SiO4                 |
| Woodruffite         |                                                                                                                                         | (Zn,Mn)Mn3O7.1-2H2O     |
| Wurtzite            | Same composition as Sphalerite  but different crystallinity.   Regarded as low temperature,  unstable form which reverts to  Sphalerite | ZnS                     |

Lead occurs mostly as galena in both the oxide and sulphide mineralisation, although occurrences of carbonate (cerussite) have been detected.

Metallurgical testing shows that zinc can be recovered from all ore types.  However, lead and silver can be recovered only as a concentrate from the sulphide ore.

The Deposit is also considered to be the largest deposit of barite in the Middle East, which can be mined and used to manufacture drilling muds for the oil industry.

## METALLURGY SUMMARY

The  metallurgical  test-work  indicates  that  the  zinc  oxide  ore  and  the  sulphide concentrates can both be processed by using acid leach technology.  The recovery of zinc  from  whole  oxide  ores  using  acid  leaching  and  solvent  extraction  is  a  recent development in the zinc industry.

Table 10: Metallurgical Recoveries Expected

| Metal   | Ore Type   | Flotation Recovery   | Overall   |
|---------|------------|----------------------|-----------|
| Lead    | Sulphide   | 77%                  | 77%       |
| Zinc    | Oxide      | -                    | 75%       |
| Zinc    | Sulphide   | 80%                  | 75%       |

## PRODUCTION SUMMARY

The  development  of  the  Mehdiabad  Zinc  Project  will  involve  the  ramp  up  of  zinc production  from  an  initial  level  of  160,000  tones  per  annum  to  500,000  tonnes  per annum over a period of around 10 years. The plan is to produce SHG zinc on-site from both the oxide and sulphide ores.

The following preliminary schedule does not include the treatment of the lower grade zinc  oxide  material  (2%  to  4%  zinc)  initially  stockpiled  in  the  earlier  years  of  mine production. Treatment of this material maintains a consistent 500,000tpa of zinc metal while the oxide ore is being treated.

Figure 5 - Metal Output for Combined Oxide/Sulphide operation.

<!-- image -->

The proposed development steps are as follows:

- · Year  1:  160,000  tonnes  per  annum  zinc  metal  plant  to  process  oxide  ore ( Oxide Plant) .
- · Year 5:  Commission 340,000 tonnes per annum zinc metal plant to process sulphide concentrates (Sulphide Plant) .
- · Further refinement of the production schedule may incorporate an interim step of 160,000 tonnes per annum (Stage 1 Sulphide Plant) followed in Year 9 by 180,000 tonnes per annum expansion of the (Stage 2 Sulphide Plant) .

The Oxide Plant will require an ore feed rate of approximately 4 Mt/a, based on an ore grade of 5.8% zinc.

The Stage 1 Sulphide Plant will require an ore feed rate of approximately 4 Mt/a at a grade of 5.5% Zn ramping up to in excess of 8 Mt/a when the second Sulphide Plant comes on line.

Figure 6: Site Layout

<!-- image -->

## OXIDE ORE:  METALLURGY

The leaching characteristics of the zinc oxides  present over the Deposit is variable, with  recoveries  ranging  from  65-85%.    However,  in  the  leaching  process  some unwanted  minerals  (contaminants)  including  manganese,  magnesium,  iron,  chlorite, silica,  copper,  cadmium,  nickel  and  cobalt  are  also  leached  out.    The  contaminants have  to  be  removed  from  the  leachate  before  the  zinc  can  be  recovered  by electrowinning.    The  process  of  removal  of  the  contaminants  is  referred  to  as purification.

There were available two alternate methods of purification of the leachate.

- · Zinc Dust Precipitation: Commonly used in zinc refineries for purification of the leachate.
- · Solvent Extraction (SX): A relatively new method successfully used at Anglo American's Skorpion Mine in Namibia.

Aker Kvaerner has recommended the application of the SX technology for the oxide ore.

## OXIDE ORE: PILOT PLANT TESTING

Now that the purification process has been selected the pilot plant test work can be conducted.  The pilot plant samples are ready and the tests will occur at the TR facility in Spain commencing in April 2005.

## THE OXIDE PLANT

Figure 7:  Oxide and Sulphide Plant Layout

<!-- image -->

The principal steps in the Oxide Plant are as follows:

## (a) Crushing and Grinding

The crushing section is expected to include:

- · Primary Crusher:  One 420 t/h primary jaw crusher.
- · Crushed ore stockpile.

The coarse crushed ore will be fed into an AG mill.  The desired particle size of the ground ore is a P80 of about 180 microns.

## (b) Counter-Current Leaching

The ground ore will  be  feed  into  the  counter-current  leaching  tanks  where  it  will  be leached in two stages at 50 C.  At the end of both stages the leachate will be directed 0 to a thickener.

- (i) First Stage Neutral Leach:  The Neutral Leach will be operated initially at an acidic pH (pH 1.5) and will then be neutralised to pH 4.2 to 4.7 through the addition  of  additional  oxide  ore.    The  neutralisation  will  precipitate  iron, arsenic, antimony, silica and germanium.
- (ii) Second Stage Acid Leaching.  The underflow from the Neutral Leach will be leached at an acidic pH of about 1.0 to 1.5.

## (c) Leach Residue Filtration

The  underflow  from  the  Acid  Leaching  will  be  pumped  to  a  bank  of  nine  200m 2 horizontal belt filters.  Leach residue from the filters will be sent via conveyor belt and fed  into  a  re-pulp  tank,  where  it  is  mixed  with  a  portion  of  the  liquor  from  the  final neutralisation stage.

The filtrate from the first three filters will be returned for use in the Feed Thickener; the filtrate from the second three filters will be used as the wash liquor in Neutral Leach and the filtrate from the last three filters will be used as the wash liquor in Acid Leach.

## (d) Solution Clarification

The  Neutral  Leach  thickener  overflow  will  pass  through  three  pinned  bed  clarifiers, polishing  filters  and  a  bank  of  sand  bed  clarifiers  to  remove  all  traces  of  solids contamination  and  to  produce  a  clarified  solution.  The  clarified  solution  will  contain about 35 g/L zinc and, possibly, the same amount of manganese.

## (e) Solvent Extraction

Solvent extraction consists of three extraction stages, three scrubbing stages and two stripping  stages,  which  collectively  purify  and  concentrate  the  zinc  to  produce  a suitable  electrolyte  feed  to  the  zinc  cellhouse.    In  addition,  there  will  also  a  single depletion stage that extracts the remaining zinc from cellhouse solution returned to the solvent extraction circuit (raffinate).

## (f) Raffinate Treatment

Treatment of raffinate will remove any contaminants returning to the solvent extraction circuit from the cellhouse.

## (g) Electrolysis

In the cellhouse, the strong electrolyte containing about 90 g/L zinc and 110 g/L acid is mixed with the spent electrolyte from the cells containing 50 g/L zinc and 170 g/L acid to produce a cell feed solution containing 55 g/L zinc and 162.5g/L acid.

The cellhouse is expected to comprise 84 cells in two rows of 42.

## (h) Melting and Casting

The cathodes from the cellhouse will be melted and cast into special high grade (SGH) ingots.

## (i) Acid Plant

A sulphur-burning acid plant is required to provide 93% concentration sulphuric acid for the Oxide Plant. The plant will export 12 MW of electrical power net after internal consumption and it will consume approximately 80 m /h of treated water. 3

## SULPHIDE ORE: METALLURGY

The  sulphide  metallurgical  testwork  has  been  conducted  at  Optimet  Laboratories  in Adelaide using composites from different parts of the ore body.

The results showed that the galena and sphalerite are amenable to beneficiation by flotation, albeit with  some  variability  across  the  ore  body,  which  seems  to  be dependent upon the amount of iron-zinc carbonate mineral present.

The  results  show  that  galena  can  be  beneficiated  into  a  contemporary  commercial quality concentrate.  The optimum grind size was found to be 75 µm P80 grind size, where 90% of the galena and sphalerite were reported as free liberated mineral.

A satisfactory grade of lead concentrate can be produced for sale to lead refineries.

The zinc concentrate target grade of 35% to 40% to maximize recovery is suitable for acid leaching in open agitated tanks with oxygen.

Leaching of the sulphide concentrate has shown extraction of the zinc in the high 90's from the concentrate.

Atmospheric  direct  leaching  of  zinc  sulphide  concentrate  with  sulphuric  acid  is  now regularly  used by major zinc producers as a means of increasing zinc production at existing zinc plants without the necessity of concentrate roasting.

## THE SULPHIDE PLANT

For the first ramped sulphide expansion of 160,000 tpa zinc.

## (a) Crushing and Grinding

The jaw crusher is equipped with a 400 kW motor and set to produce a product of 80% passing 150 mm.

The primary SAG mill will be of 8.6 m diameter by 4.3 m long SAG mill driven by a 4500 kW motor.

The secondary grinding mill will be a 6.7 m diameter by 8.6 m long ball mill driven by a 6500 kW motor.

## (b) Lead Flotation

The lead flotation circuit will be designed on the basis of an overall recovery of 75% to a final concentrate grading 60% lead.  The circuit will be conventional with roughing, scavenging, a regrind of the scavenger concentrate and two stages of cleaning.

Lead concentrate will be thickened and filtered before storage, from which it will be shipped.

## (c) Zinc Flotation

The zinc flotation circuit will be designed for the maximum recovery and to this end will produce a concentrate grading 38% zinc at a recovery of 80%.  The circuit will consist of  a  conventional roughing and scavenging section.  The scavenger concentrate will be reground and cleaned.  The zinc rougher concentrate and the scavenger cleaner concentrate will be combined to produce the final concentrate.  This concentrate will then be further ground in horizontal stirred mills before thickening.

## (d) Leaching

The oxidative leach and purification circuit will operate on the basis of a 95% extraction of zinc from concentrate.  There are eight leach tanks and two iron precipitation tanks in a continuous train, followed by a separate neutralisation stage.  The leaching plant is  sized  to  produce  170  000  t/a  of  zinc  feed  to  the  purification  stage,  comprising 160,000 t/a slab zinc and about 10,000 t/a recycled material.

All tanks will operate at atmospheric pressure.  The leaching stage will operate autothermally  at  95 C  -  110°C.  The  majority  of  the  acid  required  in  the  leach  will  be o provided in the spent electrolyte.

## (e) Goethite Precipitation

The leach stage will be followed by a goethite precipitation stage, which will remove most of the iron and acid and convert the iron and other impurities into a solid form for disposal to tailings.

## (f) Zinc Dust Purification

Elements harmful to the zinc electrowinning process will be removed in a two-stage zinc  dust  purification  circuit.  The  first  purification  stage  precipitates  the  copper, cadmium, cobalt and nickel by the addition of zinc dust, copper sulphate (if required) and potassium antimony tartrate.  The second zinc dust purification stage, which acts purely as a clean-up stage.

## (g) Electrolysis

The purified solution is pumped to the cellhouse and mixed with spent electrolyte and fed to the electrolysis cells.  The zinc is deposited on the cathode sheets and every 48 hours the zinc is stripped from the cathodes for melting and casting.

## (h) Melting and Casting

The cathode zinc sheets are fed to the single melting furnace and they are melted and cast.

## INFRASTRUCTURE

## (a) Power Supply

The project will require reliable power supplies to support an estimated 100 MW during commissioning rising to 160 MW from years 1 - 6 and 260 MW from year 7 onwards.  It will require the construction of a 45km transmission line to the project site

## (b) Roads

The route to Yadz will bypass the villages and require the upgrade and sealing of an existing 46 km section of gravel road. Total distance from Yazd is 91 km.

## (c) Rail

It is expected that rail transport will be the primary transportation method for the import of process materials and the export of products.

The most suitable route for the rail spur line to the main Tehran to Bandar Abbas Line is a distance of 60 km. The rail distance from Project site to Shahid Rajaee Port near Bandar Abbas is 624 km

## (d) Port Facilities

Shahid  Rajaee  Port  is  fully  equipped  as  a  modern  port  with  sufficient  capacity  to handle the inbound capital equipment needed and also to handle the export of zinc ingots and the lead-silver concentrates.

## (e) Tailings

Clarifier  underflow  will  be  pumped  to  the  tailings  disposal  system  for  disposal  in containments constructed within the waste dumps.

## (f) Other Infrastructure

Procedures  on  safety,  fire  control,  health,  workshops,  water  management  and  staff facilities  have  been  prepared  and  are  considered  the  industry  standard  for  a  major mining and processing plant.

## (g) Central Workshops

Workshops will be constructed at the site to handle all major repairs and maintenance for the mining and processing equipment.

## (h) Warehouse

A  major  warehouse  complex  will  be  constructed  for  all  consumables,  materials  and machinery parts including special areas for the storage of flammable and dangerous goods and the storage of zinc ingots and lead-silver concentrates awaiting shipping.

## (i) Local Industry Support Facility

An area of land to be set aside for the establishment of industrial sheds by appropriate private Iranian companies,  particularly  those  whose  products  or  equipment  are employed on the project.

## (j) Personnel Transportation

On site accommodation will be limited with buses of appropriate sizes and condition being provided to carry personnel to and from work and their designated pick up and drop off points.

## (k) Water Borefield Facilities

The facilities at the bore field will comprise an osmosis treatment plant, control room and workshops to maintain the pumps.

## ECONOMICS

## (a) OXIDE PLANT: CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE

The capital cost for the Oxide Plant based on all new equipment quotations from leading suppliers.

Table: 11: Oxide Plant Capital Costs

| Item                           | USD         |
|--------------------------------|-------------|
| Process Mechanical Equipment   | 157 million |
| Commodities                    | 146 million |
| Acid Plant                     | 51 million  |
| SX Plant inventory             | 1 million   |
| TOTAL OXIDE PLANT CAPITAL COST | 355 million |

## (b) OXIDE PLANT: OPERATING COST ESTIMATE

Key points:

- · An estimated staff of 492 people will be required to run the Oxide Plant.
- · The plant will meet all environmental standards.
- · The oxide plant will require the following key consumables:

Tonnes/annum

Sulphur

172,544

Limestone

167,040

Lime

86,400

Table: 12: Total Plant Operating Cost

| Item                     | USD/a      |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Labour                   | 6 million  |
| Reagents and Consumables | 20 million |
| Maintenance Supplies     | 11 million |
| Electrical Power         | 14 million |
| TOTAL                    | 50 million |

## (c) SULPHIDE PLANT: CAPITAL COST

Including  crushing,  concentrator,  zinc  plant  and  infrastructure  per  160,000  tpa  zinc production  module ( 2 ultimately required).

## TOTAL SULPHIDE PLANT CAPITAL COST:

US$256 MILLION PER STAGE.

## (d) SULPHIDE PLANT OPERATING COST

- (i) Labour: The number of personnel for supervision, operations and maintenance is estimated to be 133 people.
- (ii) Reagents and Consumables: The major reagents and consumables are:

Table: 13: Major Consumables Per Stage

| Item           | Per Annum     |
|----------------|---------------|
| Sulphide       | 22,691 tonnes |
| Limestone      | 63,068 tonnes |
| Lime           | 1,489 tonnes  |
| Mill Balls     | 2,660 tonnes  |
| SAG Mill Balls | 1,140 tonnes  |

## ECONOMICS REVIEW

A review of the project economics by UCL at the end of Phase 2 of the BFS suggests that the total operating cost will be around US$600 per tonne of zinc metal produced.

The project NPV at current zinc prices is above US$1000 million.  The IRR is close to 30%.

For further information contact info@unionresources.com.au
